docs/index.rst, before:

Generic programming library for Python
======================================

Generic is trying to provide a Python programmer with primitives for creating
reusable software components by employing advanced techniques of OOP and other
programming paradigms.

This documentation suits both needs in a tutorial and an API reference for
generic:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 3
   :hidden:
   
   multidispatching
   event_system
   registry

Installation
------------

You can get generic by issuing *easy_install*::

  % easy_install generic

or *pip* command::

  % pip install generic

In case you find a bug or have a feature request, please file a ticket at
`GitHub Issues`_.

.. _GitHub Issues: https://github.com/gaphor/generic/issues

Development process
-------------------

Development takes place at `GitHub`_, you can clone source code repository with the
following command::

  % git clone git://github.com/gaphor/generic.git

In case submitting patch or GitHub pull request please ensure you have
corresponding tests for your bugfix or new functionality.

.. _GitHub: https://github.com/gaphor/generic

Commit message:

Remove mention of easy_install

docs/index.rst, after:

Generic programming library for Python
======================================

Generic is trying to provide a Python programmer with primitives for creating
reusable software components by employing advanced techniques of OOP and other
programming paradigms.

This documentation suits both needs in a tutorial and an API reference for
generic:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 3
   :hidden:
   
   multidispatching
   event_system
   registry

Installation
------------

You can get generic with *pip*::

  % python -m pip install generic

In case you find a bug or have a feature request, please file a ticket at
`GitHub Issues`_.

.. _GitHub Issues: https://github.com/gaphor/generic/issues

Development process
-------------------

Development takes place at `GitHub`_, you can clone the source code repository with the
following command::

  % git clone git://github.com/gaphor/generic.git

We love contributions! If you are submitting a GitHub pull request please ensure you
have tests for your bugfix or new functionality.

.. _GitHub: https://github.com/gaphor/generic
